# About our group

Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) constitute a heterogeneous group of
non-Hodgkin lymphomas associated with poor prognosis. We performed a systematic
analysis of the genetic alterations responsible for PTCL transformation using a
combination of whole exome sequencing of tumor-normal DNA pairs, RNAseq analysis
and targeted deep sequencing of candidate genes. These analyses verified the
presence of recurrent mutations in the TET2 tumor suppressor gene in PTCLs and
identified recurrent mutations in the RHOA small GTPase gene including a highly
prevalent RHOA G17V allele in this disease identified in 70% of
angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphomas (AITL) and almost 20% of not otherwise
specified PTCL (PTCL NOS) samples. Mechanistically, our results demonstrated
that RHOA G17V inhibits RHOA signaling via a GEF-trap mechanism. Thus, RHOA G17V
effectively binds to active GEFs but fails to load GTP and to interact with
downstream effector factors, which results in impaired RHOA signaling.

Our central hypothesis is that the PTCL RHOA G17V mutation acts as negative
regulators of RHOA signaling and contributes to T-cell transformation by
disrupting key mechanisms that control cell signaling, proliferation, survival
and migration. Moreover we postulate that RHOA G17V specifically cooperates with
TET2 mutations in the pathogenesis of AITL. The focus of our research is (i) to
identify signaling factors mediating the oncogenic activity of RHOA G17V in
T-cells, (ii) to characterize the role and mechanisms of RHOA G17V in T-cell
transformation and finally (iii) to analyze the oncogenic effects of RHOA G17V
in the pathogenesis of AITL in vivo.
